docs/documentation/documentation.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Installation
id: documentation
section: documentation
---

## Installation

Brightspot CMS is built on top of the [Dari Framework](http://dariframework.org). This install will create your new Brightspot CMS application.

Installing Brightspot CMS requires five main steps. We will walk through these in more detail below.

- Create Database
- Install Application Server
- Install Solr DB
- Use Maven to run archetype embed Brightspot CMS
- Start Application Server


### Create Database

**MySQL 5.5.x**

If you don't already have MySQL [download](http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql) and [install](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.5/en/installing.html).

Start MySQL on the default port 3306 and create a new database. Load the [Dari Database Schema file](https://github.com/perfectsense/dari/tree/master/etc/mysql) into your newly created database.

Note: Brightspot CMS (Dari) also supports PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB. The schema files for these databases can be found in the Dari Github repo, [here](https://github.com/perfectsense/dari/tree/master/etc)


### Create Application Server

**Tomcat 6.x**

[Download](http://tomcat.apache.org/download-60.cgi) Tomcat and unzip to a directory now referred to as $TOMCAT_HOME. 

Note: For Windows users install the generic Tomcat version, NOT the Windows Version. This is required for the on-the-fly code compilation (Reloader Tool) to function correctly.

**Glassfish**

Brightspot CMS (Dari) can also be run on Glassfish.

### Install Solr Database

**Tomcat Solr Install**

[Download](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/lucene/solr) Solr 3.6.0 and unzip to a directory now referred to as $SOLR_DIST.

Copy solr.war into the Tomcat webapps directory:

`cp $SOLR_DIST/example/webapps/solr.war $TOMCAT_HOME/webapps`

Copy Solr's DB directory into $TOMCAT_HOME:

`cp -r $SOLR_DIST/example/solr $TOMCAT_HOME`

Replace the default Solr `schema.xml` and `solrconfig.xml` files with Dari configurations downloaded from the Dari repository - [here](https://github.com/perfectsense/dari/tree/master/etc/solr) - *Note, Make sure the filenames remain `solrconfig.xml` and `schema.xml`*

`cp solrconfig.xml $TOMCAT_HOME/solr/conf/solrconfig.xml`

`cp schema.xml $TOMCAT_HOME/solr/conf/schema.xml`

Place the [MySQL Connector jar](http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/) file in the Tomcat `lib` directory. 

`cp mysql-connector-java-5.1.18-bin.jar $TOMCAT_HOME/lib`

Create a media directory on the Tomcat server where the CMS can store uploaded files:

`mkdir $TOMCAT_HOME/webapps/media`


### Configure context.xml

This is an example `context.xml` file. Replace the default file found in $TOMCAT_HOME/conf/context.xml. 

	<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
	<Context allowLinking="true" crossContext="true">

	<WatchedResource>WEB-INF/web.xml</WatchedResource>

	<!-- CMS Settings -->
	<Environment name="cms/tool/isAutoCreateUser" override="true" type="java.lang.Boolean" value="true" />
	<Environment name="cms/fe/isJspErrorEmbedded" type="java.lang.Boolean" value="true" override="false" />
	
	<!-- Create Production Environment for CMS -->
	<!-- <Environment name="PRODUCTION" override="false" type="java.lang.Boolean" value="true" /> -->

	<!-- Add authentication for _debug tool -->
	<!-- <Environment name="dari/debugRealm" type="java.lang.String" value="DIRECT HOST NAME" override="false" />
	<Environment name="dari/debugUsername" type="java.lang.String" value="USERNAME" override="false" />
	<Environment name="dari/debugPassword" type="java.lang.String" value="PASSWORD" override="false" /> -->

	<Environment name="dari/defaultDatabase" type="java.lang.String" value="$DB_NAME" override="false" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/class" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="com.psddev.dari.db.AggregateDatabase" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/defaultDelegate" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="sql" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/sql/class" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="com.psddev.dari.db.SqlDatabase" />

	<Resource name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/sql/dataSource" auth="Container" driverClassName="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver" logAbandoned="true" 	maxActive="100" maxIdle="30" maxWait="10000" type="javax.sql.DataSource" removeAbandoned="true" removeAbandonedTimeout="60" username="$DB_USER" 	password="$DB_PASS" url="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/$DB_NAME" testOnBorrow="true" validationQuery="SELECT 1"/>

	<Environment name="solr/home" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="$TOMCAT_HOME/solr" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/solr/groups" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="-* +cms.content.searchable" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/solr/class" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="com.psddev.dari.db.SolrDatabase" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/solr/serverUrl" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="http://localhost:$TOMCAT_PORT/solr" />

	<Environment name="dari/defaultStorage" type="java.lang.String" value="local" override="false" />
	<Environment name="dari/storage/local/class" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="com.psddev.dari.util.LocalStorageItem" />
	<Environment name="dari/storage/local/rootPath" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="$TOMCAT_HOME/webapps/media" />
	<Environment name="dari/storage/local/baseUrl" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="http://localhost:$TOMCAT_PORT/media" />

	<Environment name="cookieSecret" type="java.lang.String" value="Deem2oenoot1Ree5veinu8" override="true" />

	</Context>


The new file will need to be configured. Replace the values outlined below with your own.

`$DB_NAME` - the name of the MySQL database you created.

`$DB_USER` - the username to login to your MySQL database

`$DB_PASS` - the password to login to your MySQL database

`$TOMCAT_HOME` - The directory where tomcat is installed.

`$TOMCAT_PORT` - The port at which tomcat will run. Default is 8080. You can find this value in $TOMCAT_HOME/conf/server.xml by looking for: "&lt;Connector port="

    
### Maven

If you do not already have Maven, [download](http://maven.apache.org/download.html) and install. On the command line type `mvn -v` to see your Maven Version number.

You will need to create a Maven project in which we will embed the CMS application. 

Run the following Archetype to create the project structure.

	mvn archetype:generate -B \
    	-DarchetypeRepository=http://public.psddev.com/maven \
    	-DarchetypeGroupId=com.psddev \
    	-DarchetypeArtifactId=cms-app-archetype \
    	-DarchetypeVersion=2.0-SNAPSHOT \
    	-DgroupId=yourGroupID \
    	-DartifactId=yourProject
    	
*Note, the GroupID and Project name must not contain spaces or hyphens*

Once your project has been created access your new pom.xml and add the following dependency, for Solr.

        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.apache.solr</groupId>
            <artifactId>solr-solrj</artifactId>
            <version>3.6.0</version>
        </dependency>


### Embed CMS

Once your required folder structure is in place run a `mvn clean install` within  `yourProject` folder. *You can confirm you are in the correct location if you can see your pom.xml file.*

A war file will now be created in the `target` directory. The CMS application will be embedded into your project.

Next step is to copy your new war file to `$TOMCAT_HOME/webapps` - rename this to be `ROOT.war`. *Note, the default Apache ROOT directory must be removed.*


### Start Tomcat

`./bin/startup.sh`


### Access your CMS

The first time that you access your CMS you will need to perform a `_debug/init`

<http://localhost:8080/_debug/init>

The function of the `_debug/init` is to initialize the CMS Tool Application and widgets.

<img src="http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/init.png"/>

### Login

Once installed, and assuming the default port is being used, you can access the CMS application at: <http://localhost:8080/cms>

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/login.png)

You will be brought to the default login screen (See above). First time access is unrestricted. Enter any username and password to login. This username and password will automatically be saved in the CMS, with a Tool User account created. (Admin -> Users & Roles)

This automatic user creation can be turned off. 

To do this simply access `$TOMCAT_HOME/conf/context.xml` and change `value="true"` to `value="false"`

    <Environment name="cms/tool/isAutoCreateUser" override="false" type="java.lang.Boolean" value="false" />

Commit message:

Adding info on fixing permissions for bin/*.sh

docs/documentation/documentation.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Installation
id: documentation
section: documentation
---

## Installation

Brightspot CMS is built on top of the [Dari Framework](http://dariframework.org). This install will create your new Brightspot CMS application.

Installing Brightspot CMS requires five main steps. We will walk through these in more detail below.

- Create Database
- Install Application Server
- Install Solr DB
- Use Maven to run archetype embed Brightspot CMS
- Start Application Server


### Create Database

**MySQL 5.5.x**

If you don't already have MySQL [download](http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql) and [install](http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.5/en/installing.html).

Start MySQL on the default port 3306 and create a new database. Load the [Dari Database Schema file](https://github.com/perfectsense/dari/tree/master/etc/mysql) into your newly created database.

Note: Brightspot CMS (Dari) also supports PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB. The schema files for these databases can be found in the Dari Github repo, [here](https://github.com/perfectsense/dari/tree/master/etc)


### Create Application Server

**Tomcat 6.x**

[Download](http://tomcat.apache.org/download-60.cgi) Tomcat and unzip to a directory now referred to as $TOMCAT_HOME. 

Note: For Windows users install the generic Tomcat version, NOT the Windows Version. This is required for the on-the-fly code compilation (Reloader Tool) to function correctly.

**Glassfish**

Brightspot CMS (Dari) can also be run on Glassfish.

### Install Solr Database

**Tomcat Solr Install**

[Download](http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/lucene/solr) Solr 3.6.0 and unzip to a directory now referred to as $SOLR_DIST.

Copy solr.war into the Tomcat webapps directory:

`cp $SOLR_DIST/example/webapps/solr.war $TOMCAT_HOME/webapps`

Copy Solr's DB directory into $TOMCAT_HOME:

`cp -r $SOLR_DIST/example/solr $TOMCAT_HOME`

Replace the default Solr `schema.xml` and `solrconfig.xml` files with Dari configurations downloaded from the Dari repository - [here](https://github.com/perfectsense/dari/tree/master/etc/solr) - *Note, Make sure the filenames remain `solrconfig.xml` and `schema.xml`*

`cp solrconfig.xml $TOMCAT_HOME/solr/conf/solrconfig.xml`

`cp schema.xml $TOMCAT_HOME/solr/conf/schema.xml`

Place the [MySQL Connector jar](http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/) file in the Tomcat `lib` directory. 

`cp mysql-connector-java-5.1.18-bin.jar $TOMCAT_HOME/lib`

Create a media directory on the Tomcat server where the CMS can store uploaded files:

`mkdir $TOMCAT_HOME/webapps/media`


### Configure context.xml

This is an example `context.xml` file. Replace the default file found in $TOMCAT_HOME/conf/context.xml. 

	<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
	<Context allowLinking="true" crossContext="true">

	<WatchedResource>WEB-INF/web.xml</WatchedResource>

	<!-- CMS Settings -->
	<Environment name="cms/tool/isAutoCreateUser" override="true" type="java.lang.Boolean" value="true" />
	<Environment name="cms/fe/isJspErrorEmbedded" type="java.lang.Boolean" value="true" override="false" />
	
	<!-- Create Production Environment for CMS -->
	<!-- <Environment name="PRODUCTION" override="false" type="java.lang.Boolean" value="true" /> -->

	<!-- Add authentication for _debug tool -->
	<!-- <Environment name="dari/debugRealm" type="java.lang.String" value="DIRECT HOST NAME" override="false" />
	<Environment name="dari/debugUsername" type="java.lang.String" value="USERNAME" override="false" />
	<Environment name="dari/debugPassword" type="java.lang.String" value="PASSWORD" override="false" /> -->

	<Environment name="dari/defaultDatabase" type="java.lang.String" value="$DB_NAME" override="false" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/class" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="com.psddev.dari.db.AggregateDatabase" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/defaultDelegate" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="sql" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/sql/class" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="com.psddev.dari.db.SqlDatabase" />

	<Resource name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/sql/dataSource" auth="Container" driverClassName="com.mysql.jdbc.Driver" logAbandoned="true" 	maxActive="100" maxIdle="30" maxWait="10000" type="javax.sql.DataSource" removeAbandoned="true" removeAbandonedTimeout="60" username="$DB_USER" 	password="$DB_PASS" url="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/$DB_NAME" testOnBorrow="true" validationQuery="SELECT 1"/>

	<Environment name="solr/home" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="$TOMCAT_HOME/solr" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/solr/groups" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="-* +cms.content.searchable" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/solr/class" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="com.psddev.dari.db.SolrDatabase" />
	<Environment name="dari/database/$DB_NAME/delegate/solr/serverUrl" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="http://localhost:$TOMCAT_PORT/solr" />

	<Environment name="dari/defaultStorage" type="java.lang.String" value="local" override="false" />
	<Environment name="dari/storage/local/class" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="com.psddev.dari.util.LocalStorageItem" />
	<Environment name="dari/storage/local/rootPath" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="$TOMCAT_HOME/webapps/media" />
	<Environment name="dari/storage/local/baseUrl" override="false" type="java.lang.String" value="http://localhost:$TOMCAT_PORT/media" />

	<Environment name="cookieSecret" type="java.lang.String" value="Deem2oenoot1Ree5veinu8" override="true" />

	</Context>


The new file will need to be configured. Replace the values outlined below with your own.

`$DB_NAME` - the name of the MySQL database you created.

`$DB_USER` - the username to login to your MySQL database

`$DB_PASS` - the password to login to your MySQL database

`$TOMCAT_HOME` - The directory where tomcat is installed.

`$TOMCAT_PORT` - The port at which tomcat will run. Default is 8080. You can find this value in $TOMCAT_HOME/conf/server.xml by looking for: "&lt;Connector port="

    
### Maven

If you do not already have Maven, [download](http://maven.apache.org/download.html) and install. On the command line type `mvn -v` to see your Maven Version number.

You will need to create a Maven project in which we will embed the CMS application. 

Run the following Archetype to create the project structure.

	mvn archetype:generate -B \
    	-DarchetypeRepository=http://public.psddev.com/maven \
    	-DarchetypeGroupId=com.psddev \
    	-DarchetypeArtifactId=cms-app-archetype \
    	-DarchetypeVersion=2.0-SNAPSHOT \
    	-DgroupId=yourGroupID \
    	-DartifactId=yourProject
    	
*Note, the GroupID and Project name must not contain spaces or hyphens*

Once your project has been created access your new pom.xml and add the following dependency, for Solr.

        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.apache.solr</groupId>
            <artifactId>solr-solrj</artifactId>
            <version>3.6.0</version>
        </dependency>


### Embed CMS

Once your required folder structure is in place run a `mvn clean install` within  `yourProject` folder. *You can confirm you are in the correct location if you can see your pom.xml file.*

A war file will now be created in the `target` directory. The CMS application will be embedded into your project.

Next step is to copy your new war file to `$TOMCAT_HOME/webapps` - rename this to be `ROOT.war`. *Note, the default Apache ROOT directory must be removed.*


### Start Tomcat

`./bin/startup.sh`

If you are seeing the following error - `The BASEDIR environment variable is not defined correctly. This environment variable is needed to run this program` you will need to remove restrictions on the permissions of your /bin/*.sh files.

From $TOMCAT_HOME run the following command `chmod +x bin/*.sh`


### Access your CMS

The first time that you access your CMS you will need to perform a `_debug/init`

<http://localhost:8080/_debug/init>

The function of the `_debug/init` is to initialize the CMS Tool Application and widgets.

<img src="http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/init.png"/>

### Login

Once installed, and assuming the default port is being used, you can access the CMS application at: <http://localhost:8080/cms>

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/login.png)

You will be brought to the default login screen (See above). First time access is unrestricted. Enter any username and password to login. This username and password will automatically be saved in the CMS, with a Tool User account created. (Admin -> Users & Roles)

This automatic user creation can be turned off. 

To do this simply access `$TOMCAT_HOME/conf/context.xml` and change `value="true"` to `value="false"`

    <Environment name="cms/tool/isAutoCreateUser" override="false" type="java.lang.Boolean" value="false" />
