docs/documentation/introduction-publishing.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Publishing
id: introduction
section: documentation
---

<div markdown="1" class="span8">


## Overview

This introduction touches on the basics of publishing with Brightspot. For more detailed documentation, please see the [Editorial guide](/editorial-guide.html) section, or this quick [visual review](/editing.html) of the tool.

The example screens used in this guide are from a demo version of Brightspot. Your Brightspot interface will not share all of the same names or user interface elements, as it is derived from your own objects, however these examples should give you a clear understanding of how to carry out basic editorial tasks.

## Creating New Content

To create a new content type select one from the Create New widget on the dashboard. *(Note, Content that has an assigned Template will appear in this widget. Creating content from here results in a new page, with a dedicated URL)*. You can also create new content using the Create drop-down in the Search Tool.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/create_new_2.1.png)

## Text Fields

All text fields within Brightspot have a word and character count built-in, also, any spelling mistakes are highlighted in text fields through your browser language choice. 

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/text-fields-2.1.png)


## Rich Text Editor

A full set of tools are available when creating rich text. Bold, italics, underline, text align, lists and indentation of text are there by default. Custom text styles can also be added. If you have content already created in an MS Word or Google Doc you can paste directly into Brightspot and retain the text formatting.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/rich-text-2.1.png)


## Adding Images

In Brightspot you can add items to content as 'Enhancements'. These can be various forms of media or modular content types.

In the Rich Text Editor toolbar, click 'Add Enhancement' to open the menu.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/adding-enhance-2.1.png)

Once clicked you will see an 'Empty Enhancement' in your content. Click the Edit link to open the find tool. Here you can either select an existing image or any other content that has been designated as being applicable for inclusion. If you want to add a new object you can do that from here also.


![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/adding-enhancement-2.1.png)

You can search for an image already in the CMS, or upload a new one. Click on an image to select, then scroll down to save. Close your enhancement window, you should now see the enhancement area populated with your image name in a grey box. Clicking publish on the content will show the actual image inline.

Once an enhancement has been added, you can use the same menu to position it within your content. The arrows offer alignment options, and also allow you to shift the enhancement above blocks of text. To try this out move your image to the very top of the article using the up arrow.

Often images are added to a piece of content outside of a rich text area, using the find tool, covered in the next section.

## Find Tool

When existing content is referenced within an object, the Find Tool is used to locate it. The list is automatically filtered to only show the content allowed to be referenced. Use filters or start typing to narrow the list even further. If you cannot find the content you need, clicking the New button allows a new instance to be created inline.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/find-tool-2.1.png)


## Previewing

Brightspot provides editors with a live preview tool, allowing real-time updates to content to be shown in context. To use the tool, click on the preview link below the publish button. If you are using the inline preview on a small screen click on the preview bar at the top to slide out the live preview view. The preview feature provides a live preview of your content positioned on your site, and allows you to check and then make edits before the content goes live. To close the preview tool click on the X in the upper right. To slide it out of view briefly, click the top bar.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/live-preview-2.1.png)


</div>
<div class="span4 dari-docs-sidebar">
<div markdown="1" style="position:scroll;" class="well sidebar-nav">


* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

</div>
</div>

Commit message:

Updating adding links and full-screen editor docs

docs/documentation/introduction-publishing.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Publishing
id: introduction
section: documentation
---

<div markdown="1" class="span8">


## Overview

This introduction touches on the basics of publishing with Brightspot. For more detailed documentation, please see the [Editorial guide](/editorial-guide.html) section, or this quick [visual review](/editing.html) of the tool.

The example screens used in this guide are from a demo version of Brightspot. Your Brightspot interface will not share all of the same names or user interface elements, as it is derived from your own objects, however these examples should give you a clear understanding of how to carry out basic editorial tasks.

## Creating New Content

To create a new content type select one from the Create New widget on the dashboard. *(Note, Content that has an assigned Template will appear in this widget. Creating content from here results in a new page, with a dedicated URL)*. You can also create new content using the Create drop-down in the Search Tool.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/create_new_2.1.png)

## Text Fields

All text fields within Brightspot have a word and character count built-in, also, any spelling mistakes are highlighted in text fields through your browser language choice. 

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/text-fields-2.1.png)


## Rich Text Editor

A full set of tools are available when creating rich text. Bold, italics, underline, text align, lists and indentation of text are there by default. Custom text styles can also be added. If you have content already created in an MS Word or Google Doc you can paste directly into Brightspot and retain the text formatting. You can also import directly from Google Docs.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/rich-text-2.1.png)

## Adding Links

Select text you would like to turn into a hyperlink and click the Link icon in the Rich Text Toolbar. Add your URl, and select the choice of pop-up window. To Unlink content, click on a link and select, Unlink.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/link-ui-2.2.png)

## Full Screen Editing

To move into a full-screen editor mode, click the full screen icon in the Rich Text toolbar. This opens the editor into full screen, without any widgets visible. Return to the content edit view by clicking on the fullscreen icon again.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/full-screen-mode-2.2.png)

## Adding Images

In Brightspot you can add items to content as 'Enhancements'. These can be various forms of media or modular content types.

In the Rich Text Editor toolbar, click 'Add Enhancement' to open the menu.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/adding-enhance-2.1.png)

Once clicked you will see an 'Empty Enhancement' in your content. Click the Edit link to open the find tool. Here you can either select an existing image or any other content that has been designated as being applicable for inclusion. If you want to add a new object you can do that from here also.


![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/adding-enhancement-2.1.png)

You can search for an image already in the CMS, or upload a new one. Click on an image to select, then scroll down to save. Close your enhancement window, you should now see the enhancement area populated with your image name in a grey box. Clicking publish on the content will show the actual image inline.

Once an enhancement has been added, you can use the same menu to position it within your content. The arrows offer alignment options, and also allow you to shift the enhancement above blocks of text. To try this out move your image to the very top of the article using the up arrow.

Often images are added to a piece of content outside of a rich text area, using the find tool, covered in the next section.

## Find Tool

When existing content is referenced within an object, the Find Tool is used to locate it. The list is automatically filtered to only show the content allowed to be referenced. Use filters or start typing to narrow the list even further. If you cannot find the content you need, clicking the New button allows a new instance to be created inline.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/find-tool-2.1.png)


## Previewing

Brightspot provides editors with a live preview tool, allowing real-time updates to content to be shown in context. To use the tool, click on the preview link below the publish button. If you are using the inline preview on a small screen click on the preview bar at the top to slide out the live preview view. The preview feature provides a live preview of your content positioned on your site, and allows you to check and then make edits before the content goes live. To close the preview tool click on the X in the upper right. To slide it out of view briefly, click the top bar.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/live-preview-2.1.png)


</div>
<div class="span4 dari-docs-sidebar">
<div markdown="1" style="position:scroll;" class="well sidebar-nav">


* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

</div>
</div>
