docs/documentation/search.md, before:

---
layout: guides
title: Search
id: introduction
section: documentation
---

<div markdown="1" class="span8">


Once content has been published, you can instantly use the search tool to find it. Clicking into the 'Search' field in the top right of the Dashboard page, or any page globally brings up the search widget.

There are many ways in which you can narrow down your content in Brightspot. Typing automatically filters based on a full text search, and using the filters on the left, you can specify the exact type of content you wish to search within. You can also search for content which is missing within the filters.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/search-tool-close.png)

The search is also persistent, and can be reset using the reset link.

Once content has been accessed using the search tool, the results are still available, allowing an editor to click through results quickly in the content edit screen:

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/persist-search-2.1.png)


## Creating Work Streams

Work Steams allow editors to group together content for editing, and then work through the task quickly. A new work stream is created directly from a set of search results. Narrow your search results to match the content you want to work through, then click to create a new work stream, consisting of those items. The work stream will then appear within the dedicated widget on the dashboard. Note, you must narrow the search to a single content type when creating work streams.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/new-work-stream.png)

## Advanced Search

Click the Advanced Search button within the Global Search Tool to start an advanced search. Note, you must narrow the search to a single content type.  Click into the fields field to choose exactly which fields to return in the report data. Use the check boxes to pick and choose which content is to be included in your report export.

Export to CSV as default.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/search-guides-shot.png)

## Bulk Edit

Having selected some, or all content to edit, choosing Bulk Edit allows any fields to be overridden with new content. Simply add the new content and click Bulk Save

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/bulk-editing-2.1.png)
</div>
<div class="span4 dari-docs-sidebar">
<div markdown="1" style="position:scroll;" class="well sidebar-nav">


* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

</div>
</div>

Commit message:

Adding Color Search and Page Stage

docs/documentation/search.md, after:

---
layout: guides
title: Search
id: introduction
section: documentation
---

<div markdown="1" class="span8">


Once content has been published, you can instantly use the search tool to find it. Clicking into the 'Search' field in the top right of the Dashboard page, or any page globally brings up the search widget.

There are many ways in which you can narrow down your content in Brightspot. Typing automatically filters based on a full text search, and using the filters on the left, you can specify the exact type of content you wish to search within. You can also search for content which is missing within the filters.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/search-tool-close.png)

The search is also persistent, and can be reset using the reset link.

Once content has been accessed using the search tool, the results are still available, allowing an editor to click through results quickly in the content edit screen:

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/persist-search-2.1.png)

## Color Search

Where applicable, color can be used to search for images. Choose Image as the content type to search within, then use the color picker to choose a color. You can also add text search terms to narrow. The images returned will be a close match to the hex value set in the color picker.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/color-search-tool.png)

Every image added will have a Colors view, that allows you to see exactly which Hex values are stored on it. These are dynamically rendered from the image when it is added to the CMS.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/color-on-image.png)


## Creating Work Streams

Work Steams allow editors to group together content for editing, and then work through the task quickly. A new work stream is created directly from a set of search results. Narrow your search results to match the content you want to work through, then click to create a new work stream, consisting of those items. The work stream will then appear within the dedicated widget on the dashboard. Note, you must narrow the search to a single content type when creating work streams.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/new-work-stream.png)

## Advanced Search

Click the Advanced Search button within the Global Search Tool to start an advanced search. Note, you must narrow the search to a single content type.  Click into the fields field to choose exactly which fields to return in the report data. Use the check boxes to pick and choose which content is to be included in your report export.

Export to CSV as default.

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/search-guides-shot.png)

## Bulk Edit

Having selected some, or all content to edit, choosing Bulk Edit allows any fields to be overridden with new content. Simply add the new content and click Bulk Save

![](http://docs.brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com/bulk-editing-2.1.png)
</div>
<div class="span4 dari-docs-sidebar">
<div markdown="1" style="position:scroll;" class="well sidebar-nav">


* auto-gen TOC:
{:toc}

</div>
</div>
